
ABOUT THE APPLE WORKGROUP SERVER 95 TUNE-UP
																											
The Apple Workgroup Server 95 Tune-Up is a set of enhancements to the A/UX
operating system and AppleShare Pro. The tune-up software includes the System 7
Tune-Up, which upgrades the Macintosh system software running in the A/UX
environment. (The System 7 Tune-Up file is called "System 7 Tuner.") 

Together, these enhancements improve the performance of your server in a number
of ways:

- File-management features work more smoothly, resulting in fewer problems with 
  time-stamping, name changes to files and folders, and file locking.
- Error handling and recovery are improved.
- Security is more effective; for example, the system checks UNIX¨ permissions 
  of target files with symbolic links.
- Hardware support is enhanced, including improved support for the AppleCD 300 
  CD-ROM Drive, on-board video, and the Apple Hard Disk 230SC.

To get the maximum performance and minimize problems with your server, it is
important to install the Apple Workgroup Server 95 Tune-Up. This update tells
you how to install the tune-up software, lists the files affected by the
changes to the server software, describes in more detail the improvements
provided by the tune-up, and lists changes of interest to developers.


TUNE-UP INSTALLATION PROCEDURE

The tune-up Installer automatically installs the software that you need to
take advantage of the enhancements. On all configurations of the AWS 95, it
also automatically installs the System 7 Tune-Up.

The Apple Workgroup Server 95 Tune-Up updates the A/UX operating system from
version 3.0.1 to 3.0.2, and updates AppleShare Pro (if present on your server)
from 1.0 to 1.0.1. The installation process doesn't affect any of the current
kernel parameter settings. 

If AppleShare Pro is NOT installed on your server, you will only need Disk1.


Before You Begin

Before you begin the installation, be sure to back up all files and notify
users that you will be shutting down the server in order to install the
tune-up software. During the installation process, the system quits all
programs running on the server; you must restart the server to complete the
installation. 

To perform the installation, you must be logged in to the server as "root".
If your server is set up with the default configuration for file and print
services, and the Autologin feature is enabled, you should be logged in as
"root" automatically when you start the server. If your server is configured
as a database server, you must log in as "root" by means of the Login dialog
box.


Installing the Tune-Up Software

Make sure that you are logged in as "root" and then follow these steps:

1. Insert the disk labeled "AppleShare Workgroup Server 95 Tune-Up Disk 1." 

If the CommandShell application is the active application, the system
displays this message: "This is a Macintosh disk. What do you want to use it
as?" If this message appears, click the button labeled "Macintosh."

2. Double-click the Installer icon.

This message appears: "You can only install the AWS 95 Tune-Up on the root
volume, '/.' Please click Switch Disk to choose this disk."

3. Click Switch Disk until '/' is selected.

4. Click the Install button.

5. Click Continue to automatically quit all other running applications.

The tune-up installation begins, and the system displays a progress bar and
status messages during the process.

6. If AppleShare Pro is installed on your server, the system prompts you to
insert Disk 2, then to re-insert Disk 1.

The kernel is reconfigured; this process may take several minutes. After
your server has loaded all of the appropriate tune-up software, the message
"Installation successful" appears. 

7. Click the Restart button to complete the installation.

NOTE: If you routinely back up the server's system files (for example, to
tape), you should make a new backup after performing the installation, as
the system files will have been upgraded.


Re-Installing Appleshare Pro

If you use version 1.0 of the AppleShare Installer to re-install AppleShare
Pro after installing the tune-up, your server displays the message "You
must be running A/UX version 3.0.1 when performing this installation." To
perform the AppleShare Pro installation, click the Customize button, select
all the items listed in the Customize dialog box, then click Install (not
Easy Install). Then re-install the tune-up in order to update your system
with the latest version of AppleShare Pro.

For details on installing AppleShare Pro, see "AppleShare Pro
Administrator's Guide."


FILES AFFECTED BY THE TUNE-UP
																							
The file "System 7 Tuner" has been upgraded to version 1.1.1. The
following files have also been updated in the tune-up software.

- A/UX files:

adsp
Autologin.4.Z
catsearchd
disktab
fidd
fsck
newfs
newunix
Patch.067C
rcp
rdist
RELEASE_ID
svfs
tip
ufs

- AppleShare files:

AppleShare Pro Admin
AppleShare Pro File Server
File Server Extension


CHANGES AND ENHANCEMENTS

The tune-up software differs from the software originally shipped with the AWS
95 in the following ways.

A/UX Changes

- The tune-up installs A/UX version 3.0.2 on the system.

- The system maintains the modification date and time on folders and files 
  correctly.

- You can change the case of a Macintosh filename--for example, from "filename" 
  to "FILENAME".

- The tune-up provides improved security when the utilities "rcp", "rdist", and 
  "tip" are used.

- Files and folders that are unlocked remain unlocked unless a user 
  deliberately locks them.

- The system maintains the modification date for files manipulated by means of 
  Adobe Illustrator 3.2. 

- Users who do not have "root" privileges can no longer gain write access to 
  files pointed to by symbolic links, UNLESS the UNIX permissions on the target 
  file grant write access to the entire world. 

- Symbolic links to a directory are also intercepted if the target directory 
  does not have read/write permission for the world.  As a side effect, in this 
  case, users will not be able to remove the symbolic link by dragging it to 
  the trash.

- If the Desktop database becomes corrupted because of a crash, it will 
  automatically be rebuilt the next time the system is started. 

- The Alias Manager correctly resolves the pathname for files or folders that 
  are created on the desktop.

- Read and Write commands are issued asynchronously for files opened by means 
  of the extended FCB mechanism, which is used by AppleShare to support more 
  than 348 concurrently open files.  As a result, server performance is 
  improved.

- The file Autologin.4.Z provides the correct manual ("man") page for 
  Autologin, replacing the page shipped with A/UX 3.0.1. This file is updated 
  only if the UNIX manual pages are installed on the system.

- File IDs are persistent across a system crash.  The file ID daemon ("fidd") 
  now flushes its database (which contains the file-ID-to-UNIX-pathname 
  mappings) to the disk within 30 seconds of the addition of a new entry.  

- Date searches around Jan 1, 1977 are performed correctly.  Dates are now 
  stored as signed longs.

- A problem with accessing the system parameter RAM, which could cause on-board 
  video to be nonfunctional at system startup, has been corrected.  

- The driver for the AppleCD 300 CD-ROM Drive provides improved support for all 
  versions of the drive-unit ROMs. However, it is recommended that old ROMs be 
  upgraded, since they can cause the SCSI bus to hang. The system will notify 
  you if it encounters an old AppleCD 300 drive-unit ROM. 

- The size of each internal system cache has been increased to improve system 
  performance.

- Users can start up the system whether or not a keyboard or mouse is attached.

- Drive entries for the Apple Hard Disk 230SC and the Hard Disk 400SC have been 
  added to the "disktab" database.


AppleShare Pro Changes

- The tune-up installs version 1.0.1 of AppleShare Pro on the system.

- The amount of free space available on a disk is now returned correctly to the 
  AppleShare client.

- The write algorithm for the AppleShare Pro Server has been fixed so that it 
  no longer schedules a write operation as a deferred task to a deferred task. 
  As a result, server performance is improved.

- Users can perform searches of the Desktop database without risk of running 
  out of stack space and crashing the system.

- The number of shareable items is no longer limited.

- PC clients get a correct directory listing when the user types the "dir" 
  command.

- Files can be read nonsequentially without risk of the return of an erroneous 
  EOF.

- The "Copy to" function of AppleShare Pro Admin uses the mount point that was 
  the intended target.  (In the original version, the free space available on 
  the "/" partition was sometimes, incorrectly, used instead.)


CHANGES OF INTEREST TO DEVELOPERS

- The PPCWrite function (or trap) no longer sends out duplicate ADSP packets.

- The "exchangeFiles" trap correctly preserves the fork lengths in all cases 
  (UNIX file system only).  

- The Time Manager returns accurately the unexpired time for a "RmvTime" trap. 
  As a result, write performance to servers on busy networks is improved.

- The "Rename" trap functions correctly when subpaths containing folders are 
  specified (that is, when the pathname is not absolute or just a simple
  filename).

- The PBHDelete function (or trap) performs correctly even if no file or folder 
  name is specified (that is, if only a dirID is set in the parameter block).   

- The ADSP driver on the server correctly reports an error condition if a 
  client crashes.

- The performance of "catsearch" by dirID (that is, return all files and 
  folders whose parent dirID matches the specified dirID) has been improved by 
  at least a factor of 2.  

- The  handling of "eofErr" at the end of a search performed by a call to 
  "catsearch" has been corrected.  When the "eofErr" is encountered, the system 
  returns the last block of matches.


© Apple Computer, Inc., 1993.

Apple, the Apple logo, AppleShare, A/UX, and Macintosh are trademarks of Apple
Computer, Inc., registered in the United States and other countries. AppleCD
is a trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. Adobe and Adobe Illustrator are
trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated, which may be registered in certain
jurisdictions. UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.

